Document Packet Broker gateway visibility configuration (#583)
TheThingsIndustries/lorawan-stack-docs: doc/content/getting-started/packet-broker/configure/routing-policies.md

---
title: Routing Policies
description: ""
weight: 1
distributions:
  - Cloud
  - Dedicated Cloud
  - Enterprise
  - Open Source
new_in_version: 3.13.3
---

> Routing policies define the rules that Forwarders configure for routing messages to Home Networks. Routing policies are peer-to-peer: a Forwarder can define policies with each individual Home Network. Forwarders can also define an optional default routing policy that is used as a fallback when no specific policy is defined. [Learn more about routing policies]({{< relref "../#routing-policies" >}}).
> 
> <!-- more -->

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Routing policies define the rules that Forwarders configure for routing messages to Home Networks.

<!-- more -->

Routing policies are peer-to-peer: a Forwarder can define policies with each individual Home Network. Forwarders can also define an optional default routing policy that is used as a fallback when no specific policy is defined. [Learn more about routing policies]({{< relref "../#routing-policies" >}}).
```

{{< info >}} Packet Broker Router uses a cache of the routing table. It takes up to 10 minutes for changes in routing policies to be fully propagated and effective. ☕ {{< /info >}}

{{< tabs/container "Console" "CLI" >}}

{{< tabs/tab "Console" >}}

### Configure Default Routing Policy

To configure a default routing policy, check the **Use default routing policy for this network** radio button. This routing policy will be used when no specific routing policy has been configured with a network.

Choose which uplink and downlink messages you would like to exchange with other networks by default, by enabling the appropriate checkboxes.

{{< figure src="../default-policy.png" alt="Default Routing Policy" >}}

### Configure Network Specific Routing Policy

To configure a routing policy with a specific network, click the **Networks** tab.

All networks that are publicly listed will be shown when the **All** tab is activated. To list only networks with a configured policy, click the **Networks with non-default policies** tab.

{{< figure src="../pb-networks.png" alt="Networks" >}}

> To configure a routing policy for a specific network, click the network. Activate the **Use network specific routing policy** radio button.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To configure a routing policy for a specific network, first select the network. Activate the **Use network specific routing policy** radio button.
```

Here, you may choose which uplink and downlink messages you would like to exchange with this network.

{{< figure src="../pb-custom.png" alt="Network Specific Routing Policy" >}}

Click the **Save routing policy** button to store the routing policy.

{{< /tabs/tab >}}

{{< tabs/tab "CLI" >}}

### Configure Default Routing Policy

The default routing policy defines rules for all Home Networks if there is no specific routing policy for a Home Network.

#### Get Default Routing Policy

To get the default routing policy:

```bash
$ ttn-lw-cli packetbroker home-networks policies get default
```

> {{< info >}}
> If there is no default policy defined, this command fails with `not found`.
> {{< /info >}}

Reviewer: ```suggestion
{{< note >}}
If there is no default policy defined, the above command fails with `not found`.
{{< /note >}}
```

<details><summary>Example output</summary>

> This example has all message types enabled:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following example has all message types enabled:
```

        "length": 16
      },
      "home_network_cluster_id": "ttn-eu1"
    },
    {
      "dev_addr_prefix": {
        "dev_addr": "260C0000",
        "length": 16
      },
      "home_network_cluster_id": "ttn-nam1"
    },
    {
      "dev_addr_prefix": {
        "dev_addr": "260D0000",
        "length": 16
      },
      "home_network_cluster_id": "ttn-au1"
    }
  ],
  "contact_info": [
    {
      "contact_type": "CONTACT_TYPE_TECHNICAL",
      "contact_method": "CONTACT_METHOD_EMAIL",
      "value": "ops@thethingsnetwork.org"
    }
  ]
},
{
  "id": {
    "net_id": 8
  },
  "name": "KPN",
  "dev_addr_blocks": [
    {
      "dev_addr_prefix": {
        "dev_addr": "10000000",
        "length": 7
      }
    }
  ]
}
]
```

</details>

### Forwarder Routing Policies

You can see which routing policies Forwarders set for your network as the Home Network. This allows you to see from which networks you receive traffic, which data is being routed, and what downlink capabilities you have with those Forwarders.

To list the routing policies set by Forwarders for your network:

```bash
$ ttn-lw-cli packetbroker forwarder policies list
```

<details><summary>Example output</summary>

> This example shows that The Things Network forwards all messages to your network (`NetID` `000013` and tenant ID `my-company`) and that you can send all downlink messages via The Things Network to your end devices.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following example shows that The Things Network forwards all messages to your network (`NetID` `000013` and tenant ID `my-company`) and that you can send all downlink messages via The Things Network to your end devices.
```

Reviewer: do you mean TTS Community Edition?

Author: Yes

  },
  "updated_at": "2021-03-23T15:14:49.614025Z",
  "uplink": {
    "join_request": true,
    "mac_data": true,
    "application_data": true,
    "signal_quality": true,
    "localization": true
  },
  "downlink": {
    "join_accept": true,
    "mac_data": true,
    "application_data": true
  }
}
]
```

</details>

### Home Network Routing Policies

You can manage the routing policies between you as Forwarder and any Home Network available in Packet Broker. This allows you to configure what uplink traffic is routed where, and to which extent those Home Networks can use your gateways for downlink traffic.

#### Home Network Routing Policies

Home Network routing policies take precedence over the default routing policy.

##### List Home Network Routing Policies

To list the routing policies for Home Networks:

```bash
$ ttn-lw-cli packetbroker home-network policies list
```

##### Get Home Network Routing Policy

To get the routing policy for a Home Network:

```bash
$ ttn-lw-cli packetbroker home-networks policies get <net-id> [<tenant-id>]
```

Replace `<net-id>` with the `NetID`. The `tenant-id` is optional and represents the tenant within the `NetID`.

{{< note >}}

> To view the routing policy configured between you (the Forwarder) and The Things Network (the Home Network):

Reviewer: same here, is it TTS Community Edition?

```bash
$ ttn-lw-cli packetbroker home-networks policies get 000013 ttn
```
{{< /note >}}

##### Set Home Network Routing Policy

To set the routing policy for a Home Network:

```bash
$ ttn-lw-cli packetbroker home-network policies set <net-id> [<tenant-id>] --all
```

To customize, see [Flags]({{< relref "#flags" >}}) below.

{{< note >}}
To enable forwarding of all packets between you (the Forwarder) and The Things Network (the Home Network):

```bash
$ ttn-lw-cli packetbroker home-network policy set 000013 ttn --all
```
{{< /note >}}

##### Delete Home Network Routing Policy

To delete the routing policy for a Home Network:

```bash
$ ttn-lw-cli packetbroker home-networks policies delete <net-id> [<tenant-id>]
```

> Replace `<net-id>` with the `NetID`. The `tenant-id` is optional and represents the tenant within the `NetID`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Replace `<net-id>` with your network's `NetID`. The `tenant-id` is optional and represents the tenant within the `NetID`.
```
